Guided Buying,LP,FORMS

Guided Buying is a persona-based application offering non-procurement professionals one single place to search for goods and services, making purchases with little to no involvement from your procurement department.
Guided Buying captures organization's purchasing policies and uses them to guide casual users and functional buyers to the outcomes they need. Users know right away when a policy is violated, rather than finding out after submitting a request.

Suppliers in Guided Buying

Tactical Sourcing

Forms capture end user request related information to initiate a sourcing event. Prior to the event, suppliers are proposed to end users in the context of the request.

Requisition

For catalog items, suppliers are derived from the catalog file. For non-catalog (ad-hoc) items, suppliers can be selected either from a global pool of master data or from the pre-refined list generated by SAP Ariba Supplier Lifecycle and Performance.

Preferred Supplier Swim lane:
Preferred Suppliers for a category/location are shown in landing pages.

Requisitioning forms
 
Forms capture end user request related information to initiate a requisitioning process without sourcing. Suppliers are proposed to end users based on the item nature (catalog vs non-catalog)

SAP Ariba Procurement is used globally to loads all suppliers.

2 types of files.

supplierqualification.csv & supplierpreferred.csv

To set same supplier as preferred, a new unique row will be added for region/commodity.


If organization is not using SLP. Suppliers are loaded using SM Admin.
Suppliers are imported via SM Admin to reach the SM Database. Allows suppliers to be marked as “Qualified” or “Preferred”. 

FORMS

FORMS are data entry pages which captures information from users and triggers an RFQ Event.
Self service

Requester can handle this self service. 

Guided Buying integrates with all other solutions.

Requester enters information. selects supplier. RFQ is generated using supplier policies. RFQ is sent to supplier. supplier submits bid. Casual user selects the best quote.
PR is automatically created and submitted for approval (if any).PO is sent to the supplier. supplier receives PO.
Low touch
Casual user required information in the RFQ. Selects (preferred) supplier.RFQ is generated automatically and becomes available for the Sourcing Team. Sourcing specialist completes and publishes the RFQ. supplier submits bid. Casual user selects the best quote.PR is automatically created and submitted for approval (if any).PO is sent to the supplier. supplier receives PO.

High touch
Enters required information in the RFQ form. Selects (preferred) suppliers. Strategic Sourcing process is triggered.Sourcing specialist performs all required sourcing tasks.Sourcing specialist publishes the event.supplier submits bid. Sourcing Event team analyses bid and awards supplier.Requisition and awarded quote are available for the casual user to view
